# `Advent of Code - cli`

A command-line interface to interact with Advent of Code puzzles, built in Ruby.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> `aoc_cli` has gone through a complete rewrite as of `1.0.0` in order to improve resilience and improve the overall interface.
> The core application has been swapped out to use the `Kangaru` command line framework, with a completely new API and removal of bloated features.
> There are also some other improvements on performance, and removal of some hefty dependencies such as `pandoc`.
> These are breaking changes, so please pin your version to `0.2.3` to continue using the previous version.


## Main Features

- Download puzzles as markdown and raw inputs directly from the command line
- Submit answers for puzzles and receive feedback
- Track progress through your calendar file which is automatically updated as you progress
- View data about how you answer puzzles, for example your previous attempts, how long it takes to solve a puzzle successfully and how many attempts it took you
- Inputs and puzzles are cached locally to prevent strain on AoC server


## Installation

- As of `1.0.0`, `aoc_cli` no longer requires `pandoc`
- Other system requirements are `curl` and `sqlite3` and `ruby` >= `3.2.0`


Install `aoc_cli` with the following command

```bash
gem install aoc_cli
```


## Setup

### Setting your Session Key

To use aoc-cli you must first find and store your unique session cookie. To find this, log into the Advent of Code website as usual and load any page. 

Open developer tools and open the network tab. Refresh the page and you should see a file that contains your session cookie.

It will contain a field that looks something like:

```
cookie: session=HEXADECIMAL_STRING
```

This is unique to your account, and allows aoc-cli to interact with the AoC server - do not share this or check this into version control.

Your session token should be copied into your configuration file (`~/.config/aoc_cli/config.yml`) under the `session.token` nested key:

```yaml
session:
  token: <YOUR TOKEN>
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Make sure to strip the `session=` prefix from the copied token.

> [!NOTE]
> Multiple users used to be a feature pre the 1.0.0 overhaul. This will be
> reimplemented and released in an upcoming release if there is need for it.

## Usage

aoc-cli is designed to run in a file-tree generated by the interface. 

There are two types of directories

1. Event directories
	- These contain puzzle subdirectories

2. Puzzle subdirectories
	- These contain puzzles, input and your soution code


### Directory Structure Example

```
  2023 <--- Event Directory
  │     
  ├── 1 <-- Puzzle Directory
  │   │ 
  │   ├── day_1.md
  │   ├── input
  │   └── solution.rb
  └── 2
      ├── day_2.md
      ├── input
      └── solution.rs
```

## Initialising an Event

To begin using the cli you must first initialise an event directory. An event directory is the parent directory in which your puzzle directories (and your code solutions) exist.

To initialize an event, run the following command:

```bash
aoc event init <YEAR>
```

This will:

- Fetch your latest stats and setup your progress
- Create an event directory


## Initialising a Puzzle

Run the following command from an event directory to fetch and initialize a puzzle directory and associated files:

```bash
aoc puzzle init <DAY>
```

This command performs the following actions

- Creates a puzzle subdirectory
- Fetches the puzzle as markdown and writes to the puzzle dir
- Fetches raw puzzle input and writes to the puzzle dir

This directory is a good place to write your solution code adjacent to your input and puzzle files.


## Solving Puzzles

From the puzzle subdirectory you can solve puzzles by running the command 

```bash
aoc puzzle solve --answer <ANSWER>
```

You will then receive one of three responses

1. The answer was correct
2. The answer was not correct
3. You have time to wait before submitting an answer

If your answer is correct, aoc-cli will automatically update the puzzle instructions and your calendar file. 

Incorrect attempts will be logged along with any hint as to whether your answer was too high or too low. 

If you have sent multiple incorrect attempts AoC will ask you to wait before trying to answer the puzzle again.


## Tables

aoc-cli uses a local database to store information about your progress with puzzles. This tracks data on:

1. Your progress for the current event
1. Your attempts for the current puzzle

This data can be visualised in terminal-friendly tables


### Attempts

Previous attempts for a puzzle can be viewed from the puzzle directory by the use of the command:

```bash
aoc puzzle attempts
```

### Progress

To view your progress in the year you can run the following command from within an event or a puzzle directory.

```bash
aoc event progress
```

This will print a simple table showing your stars for each day. This is created on year initialisation and updated as you complete puzzles


## Acknowledgments

I am in no way affiliated with AoC, but I would like to take this opportunity to thank the creator Eric Wastl for the taking the time and great effort to produce these fantastic puzzles!

Please let me know if there are any bugs or issues within the issues section. Contributions and questions are welcome.
